all right so we are now
recording welcome everybody to the
monthly
ipfs local and offline collaboration
meetup
it's july 16th and today we have evan
and ahmad from
the freedom pioneers are going to talk
to us about knapsack
please sure let me
share my screen first
okay
so hi i hope you are all doing hello i'm
doing this
oh uh
uh sorry so
uh hope you're all doing fine during
this pandemic and thanks to the ipfs
community for providing us this
opportunity
uh i'm evan firozi technical coordinator
of net freedom pioneers here with ahmad
my good colleague uh net freedom
pioneers
is a nonprofit organization with the
primary mission of providing tools and
partnership
to protect the free flow of information
in the past seven eight years
nfp successfully launched several
projects
which amongst them i will mainly talk
about knapsack
and upside for hope and lisa also called
the backbone of knapsack for hope
knapsack is a satellite file casting
service that leverages common satellite
equipment to deliver digital content
this is mainly used for areas that they
either
don't have reliable internet access
or the internet is censored and filtered
by the governments
the main idea behind knapsack was a
platform that
any non-tech savvy fta satellite tv
audience
can use their current satellite setup
box and receivers
to receive and record files without
making any modification on their systems
on their devices
or without any learning curve
knapsack users can connect a usb flash
drive to a satellite setup box
and start recording from their satellite
uh
but instead of recording videos and
along with videos and audios actually
they're gonna record internet content
like files all sort of files binary
files
uh softwares and so on
this content is obviously downloaded
locally and anonymously
nobody would know uh who who is using
this content
and they can be anywhere that the
satellite footprint
uh flickering coverage uh covered at
that area
so uh the the whole system the whole
configuration is consistent
one is there is a server that aggregates
index
and prepare content for for sending
through satellite
then we have another server that
converts these
files into a tss stream and
send it to a broadcast location then we
need to lease a
channel a tv channel on a commercial tv
satellite
and on the user side the only thing they
need is a
setup box that they use to watch tv a
usb flash drive
and a pc or an android device to
extract the data uh the only part that
they need to have
internet connection in this this whole
process is to download a really a small
application our extractor application
to extract the record and to extract
files from the recorded uh
recorded data from satellite
a knapsack can be broadcasted anywhere
it the the the
coverage of because it's a satellite
it's similar to a satellite tv uh
it's it has a broad continental or
regional uh coverage
uh it can be accessed by anyone with any
any type of
technical knowledge or no technical
knowledge
the users don't need to obtain new
equipment
or they they don't need to buy any new
hardware
they can use what they are using to
watch tv
and obviously it's cost effective for
them because it doesn't put any burden
on them
on the other hand it's cost effective
for publishers because they can
they can send their content to millions
of people at once
uh without being worried about their
bandwidth or in their infrastructure
uh additional to that
uh it provides users with a bundle of
content
uh which in it in a sense we can refer
it
as to as a magazines magazine of files
and digital content
so how this work is actually pretty
interesting
you might ask question that for example
we had
data channels that we were traditionally
using to transfer data through
satellites
but uh i if you've ever used any of
those
uh you needed to have the minimum of
technical knowledge
you needed you needed a pc or a macbook
a dvd card and all that process
is is not a trivial process for for
everybody to use
so what we thought about was to make
make everything easier
uh that i'll explain in a little but uh
the back before before going there i
i'll rather talk about the backbone of
knapsack and how it works
uh to to make this uh system work
we designed a new protocol lisa protocol
that is based on mpegas standard over
ts this allows us to freely transfer any
types of binary files to a tss string
so we use a ts null packet and without
manipulating the ts header
we inject our data to the payload of the
ts packet
on the other side a user satellite
receiver treat the received packets as
regular ts packets and therefore they
can they can record it on a usb flash
drive for further use
uh that recorded file
then we can we can take it to a computer
or a cell phone
to be extracted uh
to achieve this we designed the file we
designed the file system we call it lee
cluster
uh that can contain two types of the
two types of payloads uh lee packets and
lean for i will
explain each one of them in a little bit
uh before that uh
the lisa has another specification which
is a
error correction dynamic error
correction we use the scheme similar to
rate zero for our packet
recovery uh obviously because the the
data is transferred and a stream through
satellite
we have some packet losses because of
that is that that
the nature of satellites and on top of
that
in some areas that this system would
work similar to iraq
government use different techniques of
jamming
on satellite tv channels so
we need we needed to account for that
and because of that we added this
dynamic error correction and in the past
four years it allowed us to have consist
consistent stream of data to era even
though we
experienced severe jamming at some
points
uh but i talked about lead cluster
leak cluster is the data type that we
designed
so we can we can transfer data through
ts packets each hts packet is 188 bucks
that four bytes of it is the tslr we
don't touch the kia setter so the
receiver i think that it's still
receiving a regular ts that contains
either audio video or
or mix of both so what we do we
er we extracted payload in inject our
own payload
we designed for that we designed two
types of payloads uh
lead packet and lean lead packets are uh
actually the chunks of files that
we transfer through ts uh
these chunks of files are 181 uh one
bytes
and uh we defined them in the leap
packet header
uh if it's a linfo or it's a link packet
uh but to do so uh we designed another
uh file type uh which is lee info that
holds all the metadata of all the
clusters
uh it it helps the extractor to find
each part of each file from the stream
uh the infos are repetitively sent in
the middle of the
lead package to make sure that the user
can extract only a fragment of the
stream
without having to record the entire
packets
uh this design also provided us some
flexibilities
since we send our bundles in 24 hour
cycles
at each time each packet is between
around two to four
hours and it takes between two to four
hours to be transferred entirely
a user can record at any given moment
and as long as they record for that time
they can receive the the whole package
or even if they record only a part of
a fragment of the two to four hours
for example they record only for 30
minutes they're gonna receive they
they're gonna be able to extract the
files that have been sent in that 30
minutes
uh i know that it might get a little bit
confusing so because of that we prepared
the
demo of how the extraction work and that
hopefully that clears up
the system a little bit
so this is the recording that we
recorded from a satellite
this is from our touche channel that
covers mana and
specifically iran uh the
channel uh has audio video like a
regular channel however
because of the uh because we wanted to
use most of the bandwidth
for uh data transfer we are not
showing any videos so instead of that we
are having slides on the channel
uh that has information about about two
share has information about
internet censorship about the content
that we are transferring through the
true touche and uh on top of that
it has four uh four specific data that
that can be used by our users and the
first
if you look at look up here where my
mouse is
we have we show four four pieces of data
the first piece is the
date that we sent that that
model and the second one is the time
that they need to record
the bundle to receive all the files in
that the third line
is the size of the bundle
and the last line is a counter that
counter
i believe it goes from 0 to 100
in minutes and seconds uh
so it it shows for a user for example if
your user starts recording at
this one is 85 84 minutes and five
seconds so if they start from here they
need to
wait until the counter comes back to
this number so it shows that they
receive the whole
the whole package
what can we do with that and in another
layer of the ts there is there is our
data
so to use that data we designed an
extractor application
that can extract that file right now
uh on this demo we have the files on a
on a local storage but usually people
have them on
usb flash drives and if they connect usb
flash drives they can do all these parts
of uh
finding the ts file and so on may make
that automatic they don't they don't
need to do anything they only need to
press extract
and it starts extracting all the files
from the ts stream
so the extraction takes a little bit of
time and currently we have the
this extractor for windows and android
and we have a light version of the
extractor uh
for for users that they don't they don't
want to use
all the features that i'm going to talk
about and they only want to use
the extractor itself so it extracts all
the files you can see the files inside
the extractor or they can browse them
just like folders
uh files are including software for
example here
we have uh all the android filters uh
regularly on
on a daily basis we send the updates to
all the anti-filters that are either
are active in era we have tutorials
audios videos
movies books and uh almost all types of
files that
that anybody might need on top of that
we developed an application a
sitegrounder application
that makes a offline replicate of
websites that are censored and filtered
in europe
such as bbc and send them through
uh through this application to our users
so they can browse it like they are
using internet
but all these websites are locally
hosted they are completely offline and
they can easily share it with other
people as well
another feature of this site grabber is
that
they can they can actually if they want
they can they can download these
packages
from internet too so they are they are
not too big of a package
so the main use case of it was was
making sure that everybody can access
these
these websites uh on demand either
through internet
uh or if they want uh to receive it
through satellite they can record it
they can record from satellite and
extract it
another feature of this extractor
application is that they can
share the files and they can share the
application through
local their local network this is a new
feature we added we are still testing it
but we try to make it also as easy as
possible so we added the qr code that
anybody can use their phones to scan it
and they are on the same wi-fi
and they can access the application
based on the
accessibility that the admin provides
for example they can access
they can have full access to the to the
whole extractor
or they can only see the files without
being able to modify them
and if you go we go to that link it is
the exact same ui of the application
and they can do almost everything that
they were doing locally
they can do it now over the over the
network
uh i talked about tushy channel i didn't
really introduce it
so uh currently our main use case of
knapsack
is for iran over touche tv channel on
your side satellite yasad is a popular
fda satellite company
that has uh that hosts many persian
language channels for iran and
afghanistan
and because of that a significant number
of uh households
in both countries have these antennas
pointed to yasa
so based on our based on the estimates
between 70 to 90 percent of the
households in europe use satellite tvs
despite the fact that satellite
equipment is illegal in the country
so it provides us a really really good
opportunity to reach anybody who is
interested in free and uncensored uh
data and information uh currently
uh based on the polls that that that
run by several independent groups more
than five million
people have used to share in iraq and a
large number of them are residing in
in areas uh that they don't either have
internet access or
they don't have sufficient internet
access like remote areas
but the full potential of touche was
revealed during the 2018 internet
shutdown in
iraq due to the protest iran's
government first
throttled the internet then we had we
experienced internet shutdown
and because of that we saw a huge number
of people started using two share to
receive data to receive
uh news and uh to to
actually access information uh we also
we experienced the
higher than normal jamming on the
channel uh
but we could maintain the error
correction in a way that
we ensured all our users can receive all
the files
efficiently uh
in the past four years we sent over five
terabytes of
uh digital content including educational
courses wikipedia ebooks
offline websites anti-censorship
applications and more
and consequently we save millions of
dollars in bandwidth and vpn costs for
our users
uh currently touche is actively working
with more than 200 publishers
that both include mainstream producers
such as bbc and
radio free europe and small publishers
and small organizations
that are active in that area
tusha was the reason we started this
project but that is definitely not the
only use case
of this system we can use knapsack in
cases such as
emergency response and post-conflict
rehabilitation
refugee camps remotely
sorry remote locations and offline
communities
rural areas with no fixed broadband
network
and this list and goes on uh
since most of these use cases are in
areas that we can
we can access and we can directly
operate we came up with another
configuration for our system
uh knapsack content decision is a
is a local is a central local server
that automatically download content from
satellite and make them available
through
lan and wi-fi this setup can be used
for educational institutes health care
centers libraries community centers
among others
and can hold thousands of gigabytes of
digital content for on-demand access of
that community
uh this setup is pretty uh flexible to
for instance uh using the system
uh for a rural school uh we can install
a
learning management system lms system
and
that can improve the learning experience
for those
students while their content is getting
updated through satellite
and they can they can benefit from that
that
up-to-date information as well uh
to test this this idea we started the
pilot plan
and we installed the content station for
a school in oaxaca mexico
which is a rural rural school they did
not have any access to the internet
um and to use this service students
could easily
connect to wi-fi that we were providing
them
and enjoy a variety of content that was
once on the server and also the contents
were getting updated
as well so their learning experience
completely changed
uh if you're in north america and you're
interested in testing
knapsack we have a test channel on
galaxy 19
uh the frequency is provided here
you can and you can obtain the extractor
from our website absolutely and upside
for hope
dot org and see how it works for
yourself
uh thank you very much and uh i would be
happy if you have any question
to answer your questions thank you
thank you very much this this was
absolutely fascinating
and it's really amazing to see what
you've done
and it's also so rare to see a project
like this that has been working under
pretty extreme conditions for
for more than four years serving serving
content to
populations that are desperately in need
of this content um
okay i i know i have a i have a couple
of questions that i wanted to ask but uh
first anybody else in the channel it
sounds like
nico had some comments about other types
of integrations
hi uh yes thank you uh thank you for the
presentation too it is very interesting
i have been i i think i met you
the project uh three years ago with the
d web
summit the second one anyway um
uh i met a few uh a week ago with ilya
from
webrecorder.io there's an interesting
pro it's an interesting project in
relation to
web archiving and that basically
proposes to do like uh
what internet argument does at the
global scale
you being able to do it at a at that
individual
scale and it will be i'm
curious if you are aware of of them of
the worker
work format and if you have any plans
for integration mainly because the the
tooling is very developed so it's
some and the experience is very
straightforward i i tried it out and you
could even
you can even um archive interactive
websites
with uh with no issues at all
like you know like if sites that fetch
uh resources in a
in an interactive way the way it it
reproduces them perfectly
even due to video so it's a very
interesting technology
and then of course as many of the
usual attendance to this call
now i represent the router project this
mesh network router for
for rural communities that can be
deployed without any technical knowledge
and maintain and expand it and i think
there's some
low-hanging fruit in in using mesh
technologies to expand the reach
of uh of your bots of your
of your servers to uh wider audience
uh by using mesh technology so i would
be really glad to explore that
possibility two things uh thank you very
much uncle i believe yeah be met
at dvep uh and uh yeah we i'm in contact
with the iliad web reporter they're
doing a fascinating job uh
you're in contact with them for a few
years and and definitely i'd like to to
hear more about your project
if if i can have your email address if
you can't put it in the chat
i would be uh i'll send you an email to
keep in touch
definitely we like to expand expand our
system
and using mesh networks
is definitely one of the ways to
increase the footprint of our
uh content stations
uh one thing that that
is necessary i think it's necessary to
talk about is
uh i believe everybody in this community
is familiar with uh
projects like libraries without borders
uh
the the main difference that our system
has compared to all of those
all those systems is that we can
update them on the map and so for
example libraries without borders they
provide a system that has a
lot of data but to update any of those
systems they
they need to uh the person needs to go
there and update
the content themselves so the the
benefit of using knapsack compared to
those system is that it can it can be
updated
uh without without any human interaction
so once we installed the servers we
insulted the
content station it can get all the
updates through satellite
without and nobody needs to be there to
update this content
and nico asks uh
you have some delta update mechanisms
unfortunately i don't know what delta
mechanism is if you can oh i mean
upload downloading just the difference
between
your last app your last download and
your
current one let's say if you added just
one word to
a document the difference between the
previous version and the current version
is just that word
you download just that word no currently
currently our system
is continuously downloading all the
content
and the reason is that we are we cannot
see the content before we actually
extract them
so what we see is and how it is a is a
regular ts file that has audio on video
and until we start extracting them we
cannot see
what's what's in inside the uh inside
the content
so we can't really benefit from that
and since the mechanism does not uh does
not add any cost
to the system so we really didn't didn't
follow that
i don't know if i answered your question
yes next
question and with regard to the colibri
uh yeah we've been in contact with
learning a quality team and
we actually deployed colibri on our uh
content station server in our pilot
project in mexico
and yeah we are looking actually for
making the
making tusha more available for
integration with
other offline internet you know services
including colibri
from the interfaces all the way to
internet in the box you know uh
having deploying the system on android
you know receivers
so even the extraction would be you know
done automatically on
satellite receivers so they don't have
to go through this process
of uh recording and extraction so it
would be actually you know shared
a stored you know recorded stored
extracted
stored and you know shared over a wi-fi
network so
uh even you know the average users with
very basic knowledge
of like you know tech literacy they can
use and access the services and and data
so uh yeah i mean some learning
management systems that can operate in
an offline
uh situation uh like colibri yeah we've
been you know with
other leader engineer and liz and
also uh devon uh to to
explore the ways that we can integrate
the services and
update it you know more frequently
rather just you know using
sneaker net strategies
i i had a question uh a little bit from
a
maybe less technical but more on the
usability aspect so
i'm curious how you are testing things
like like it's very interesting these
flows i think in
in western internet world you have these
these blinders on of like the internet
just works all the time right
you click the button that thing happens
right but these are very like
disconnected
user interaction flows where you have a
television and you have television
hardware
and then you have a usb key and you take
the usb drive
and then you load that into other
external systems that you use for
content consumption
curriculum wikipedia viewing videos
things like this
uh have you have you worked do you have
a design team at freedom pioneers and
have you worked
and done user testing and user research
into
how how these flows work and where
people fall off in these flows
are these flows very natural and normal
for the type of audiences you're
you're working directly with uh
actually at the beginning the flow is
not is not natural because
everybody use satellite receivers for
for uh record for
only watching tv uh i actually thought
that was a struggle that we had to get
people to actually try it once and see
that
it's a trivial uh flow they don't really
need to do anything
specific like recording their favorite
show they can record from our channel
and then connect the usb flash drive to
their computer and extract files
uh it sounds bizarre i i know that it
sounds bizarre
uh but uh one thing that we learned was
that in a case
like iran the best way to because we
cannot go there we cannot have
anybody directly there we have uh
we have people that they report to us
they report
that their usage or if if something goes
wrong or our signal is not
as strong they let us know or if there
is jamming they let us know
but uh obviously we can't go there so we
found out that the best way
to promote this system and tell people
how easy they can access free and
reliable information
is uh that somebody that has already
used it
tell someone else and show them and show
them once
that okay you just need to record and
extract it's a
like one to two step really trivial you
don't need to have any knowledge
or you don't need to make any
modification and so that was that was a
struggle
that's a sealer struggle but thankfully
in the past four years we we made a
really good user base
that they're really interested in
receiving all the content
and uh me myself if somebody when i was
in iran i moved he moved out of iran
eight nine years ago
if someone back then was offering me two
to four gigabytes of data on a daily
basis
i would go around and tell everybody you
can start using that too
so we found that that that solution is
the best solution for us
uh but other than that we are using
social media to tell people how we use
our slides that we have on the channel
uh to show them how they can they can
extract for us
and it becomes pretty easy for them
after one
after one time that they go through this
process that's why
for outside of iran for users like
schools
community centers and places that we can
have it we can have a central uh
uh content station we came up with that
contentization idea that
uh they don't need to be worried about
recording or extracting files the files
would be available and it would be like
just like internet but in
in in a smaller scale and they can
browse files over it
and the other point that i want to add
is uh
with the extractor some users you know
when they are using that you know they
they could be online we could actually
collect some information
but due to the situation in iran and you
know our
our uh policy of having a privacy built
in in our system we don't collect any
information of the users like
how many now how many times you know
they're extracting the information or
what files are they're exploring you
know where in the app they are like you
know
engaging more often so that would make
our job easier at least you know with
the
the users that are connected to the
internet so we could collect the
information but we rather not to
you know to to keep them uh more
protected yeah
i think thank you very much for that for
that last point because i think it's
really
really important uh even in
value-aligned software in the west where
people would rather not be tracked
a lot of those product development
organizations say
but we need to know whether our software
is working or not so we have to collect
the telemetry
and we only use google analytics to do
that part and it's mostly anonymous
but still people it's in your situation
it's a very good example of when it's
better to be safe
and you put the user first by not
collecting that data
in that matter so i really appreciate
that one of the other questions that i
had was around dns
uh you know these are the type like i
like archie's talk two two
sessions ago he was like in refugee
camps where he's trying to provide
content dns is the biggest
biggest challenge and the biggest
barrier for him to be able to get
content to actually work
offline uh in your site grabber tool how
have you worked around that have you
have you
either chosen content that works
specifically that way already or
have you done hacks and things like that
to be able to spoof dns or things like
that have you gotten over the the dns
hurdle
uh so uh the the the offline the
site grabber it doesn't they cannot
really browse
uh in in that sense so they cannot
browse
like the archive so how they can access
the websites
actually they go there and click on them
so if you even if you go in the inside
the folders you're gonna see an
index file for each one of those
websites and a bunch of folders and
files that
are there that are for example we record
them up to three three layers
uh so we were not dealing with the dns
uh because the solution that we wanted
to offer
was more accessibility again and easy
ease of share so anybody who wants to
share the files right now or share the
news
specifically they can easily grab that
one html
and send it to anybody else that was the
whole idea behind the
site grabber and that's why for example
in our site grabber
we'll remove all the interactive
features of all the websites so they are
literally takes that email so that's
actually the root of my question i think
was
like what type of preparation or
processing
did you do in sight grabber to be able
to make sure that this content
is functional offline it is it is
entirely it's a flat html
css and it's only html css and images
that's it
okay great thank you
any other questions that people have
yeah janice
yeah i have a quick question so you have
put together a new kind of uh bucket
type
right um can you share some
insight as to you know what
drove specific design decisions or if
you have
uh if you had any challenges in terms of
interoperability
um with you know running
and transporting basically these
products these uh
these data frames over you know
conventional networks
uh from size and bucket fragmentation
to whatever other thing
uh the the pro the decision making
process and i wasn't there
uh and i'm not sure if i'm the best
person to
explain that uh i can connect you to our
lead engineer if you want more in-depth
uh information about
the process that they that led to
this design but at what i know is that
we explore different different
configurations for example
we explored that we don't have any audio
and video and we just transferred data
but we ran into trouble uh because the
receivers were not recording because
they couldn't
decode the channel at all they were
dropping all the packets
so what we came up at the end of the day
with is that
uh usually when we get a channel we have
one video channel
and two audio channels uh we have a
slice on one on the video channel
that an audio uh stream on the audio the
first audio channel
on the second audio channel uh we put
the files we put the
content we put the ts that are
containing our files
and because the first two are
recognizable for the
receiver and they can actually play it
and show it on the tv
they when they record the the channel
the ts would be recorded entirely so all
three layers would be recorded and makes
us able to extract the files
from from that from that package i know
that that was one of the challenges they
were facing
uh and they were they they tested it
with different types of uh
mpeg but i believe mpeg2 was the best
solution for us
because it was providing us with a null
packet
in their design and that null packet
helped us a lot
uh we as i said uh we use that in our
packet
that we so we don't uh touch the header
and we only touch the we only inject the
data to the payload
so later on our lean info has then has
the
sequence number of each one of these
packets that are containing our
information
and they can use they can grab it from
each one of them
and and collect them all together to
remake the files that we are
that we sent at the at the first place
cool very useful yeah thanks
sure and as i said if sorry
i'll go ahead as i said if you need more
information
um i can i can refer you to our lead
engineer
he definitely can help you more in depth
with the technical part of the design
cool that was very helpful thanks
i have another question well a few
comments actually um
[Music]
the first question is related to air
time so
if you're using a hundred percent of
your available air time or you're using
low less than 100 and if you're using
less than 100
of it uh if you're using any strategy
for
um specifically for
uh like er error
correction they're not error
so redundancy information redundancy
uh so there are some some strategies
related to
using
and six of them any of the six of them
you can
read information uh
so uh in these cases where you you might
have a clothes
or something that might stop you from
fetching a piece of it
uh it allows you to be able to reveal
information even though you haven't
got the whole package and i think it
would be very useful
um then and and two more comments
one is in relation to a packaging format
that is being cooked
a website packaging format that has been
cooked uh
that is called web package uh the idea
is
to be able to have websites
that can be packaged in a self-contained
format where all of the resources are
in there and they are signed so the
content can't be tampered but
they are not encrypted so let's say the
home page of a newspaper
uh the
it is i mean maybe you don't want to
so if you fetch it as a an encrypted
request because it's location based you
will still be
exposing that you're accessing that
website so
in that sense you you don't know which
website you you which part of the site
you're accessing but because of its
location you are giving away a lot of
information
on the other hand you don't need
so if the information is public enough
or if you don't mind
giving away the information that you're
sharing you there's a lot that you can
gain because
by being signed it can't be tampered
with but you can cache it and you can
you can forward it for example you can
share it via bluetooth or via
offline mechanisms or peer to peer
mechanisms without
breaking the the information that would
be very useful for your project
and uh thank you yeah and then the third
the third thing is there's a project
that i ha
well i i work with community networks
around the globe
and there's one uh very interesting
project that is called group
group of it's a community network in the
rural areas of namibia around
50 to 60 kilometers from the capital of
the
of the country and
this is like a village where they have
set up
a wireless network
and in that village they have very
little energy
like no infrastructure um
and the system that they have created
for themselves
is there's one person in the village
that
usually roams from their village to the
main city and in the main city this
person has access to
prado band or like a
very very narrow road for our typical
use case but broadband for them
yeah so the villagers ask him
hey please fetch me something about this
topic or
or please search a video about these
other topics so this person when he goes
to the city
he looks around on the internet he he
downloads content
and when he goes back he hosts them on a
raspberry pi in his village and the
the villagers can access this content
is there any uh system that you might
have in place
to do this i i know that you
i don't remember if it's with your
project or the
outer net flush project other net
project alternate project
sorry i i get messed up with these two
projects
yeah that there were a way to ask
for something and i'd rather remember it
was if it was a spreadsheet on the
on on the web or something like that
yeah we can we can we can we get
requests from our users uh
they can't send the request through
their through their satellite obviously
it's a
one-way connection but we we are in
contact with our users
because in iran most of the people they
have access to the internet
but the internet is not reliable so
how they they can they can contact us
they can email us they can phone call
they can call us
they can send us text messages they and
we are
available on all social media platforms
and
uh like whatsapp telegram so on
so they can contact us and we receive
hundreds of messages every day
uh requesting for different types of
content uh
so we have that channel but that channel
is obviously
not true through uh the infrastructure
that we have
it goes again either through the
classical telephone and to calling
uh or it goes through the internet to
send us a message
but because because most of them they
have access to to
the minimum of the internet they can
still send us a text message and ask for
for a specific content
uh
okay there and there's another
interesting project
right now that might be of use for
your like a complementary use that's
called hermes
it's h-e-r-m-e-s
it's a hf radio
network that is using
inexpensive hf equipment and right now
they are migrating to
software design radios hf radios
creating a network of them to
and it might be a very interesting case
for having a
an uplink for you because it's a very
slow but effective way
to get a message from very far away to
nearby city it is being used in mexico
and in brazil and if you're interested
in getting in touch with them i can
also correct you i'm familiar with uh
hermes i don't know i'm not i haven't
been in touch with them i don't know if
ahmad was in touch with them or not
yeah uh with anna and rafael yeah we
we've been you know
uh in contact with them i learned about
their project
especially the amazon project uh that
they are doing you know for sending
so yeah definitely especially you know
their their challenge was
it's a two-way you know communication
but still
you know the bandwidth that they have
and they can tap onto
it's very limited very limited but the
the idea is basically you know most of
the benefits are consumed
for download right rather just you know
offload so they can
still like you know sending some
requests making some requests
and on the other way back we can you
know bundle the content
it either automatically or manually and
transfer the content over there
either you know it could be shared over
a wi-fi network similar to an outside
content
station or the users they can receive
the content you know on their own
using the satellite you know fta dishes
and uh
the other thing is uh with uh
with this uh content
that we are sending is
we rather for example in iran or
afghanistan we rather it's
it covers the whole region so it's a bit
you know complicated to
it's a broadcasting it's not unicasting
or multicasting so the content has to be
kind of universal or you know if you are
sending to a specific person or a
specific group you know we have some
uh ways to encrypt you know part of that
fondle so
specific users they can only only uh use
that service so
this way we can you know send a specific
information
to specific communities in the amazon
region you know if if they have any
uh any specific request or demand which
is not relevant to other communities
so
but still it's not the internet but
awesome thank you very much
and yeah thanks for the the pointer to
web package nico
uh i think one of the one of the
constraints that we've had and light
also looked a lot through these
specifications as well is that web
packaging and some of those
some of the related standards have a
dependency on the intersection of dns
and ssl and and that infrastructure and
as long as you are dependent on that
infrastructure
for validation to be able to open it
then you hit these same walls again
um that's one of the reasons why ipfs
has explored and experimented with
things like web packaging and signing
exchanges but as soon as that dependency
on the security model
of existing browser and web is in
is present then our ability to serve
these users
disappears because they don't have that
type of connectivity
it's one of those things where the like
this specification speaks to especially
in its use cases so many of the things
that projects like knapsack are doing
and ipfs and a bunch of related projects
but from the infrastructural standpoint
as long as that dependency on the
security model of the web exists
you can only get so far it's really it's
really hard well
i i would i yes but i would say
so um so right now
most of the computers are distributed
are set up by from factory or from your
from the
very moment that you set them up with
root
certificates installed so you can
rely on those though it's the mo the
least the the the least
um trust worthy
like that you you you can't rely as much
as any other
yeah of course but again uh
the the benefits our outcome
the the the uh out i don't know how to
say it
whenever the benefits are huge uh if you
start using
these uh distribution mechanisms um
yeah yeah by the way i agree it's it's
a really hard it's a really hard problem
right and uh one thing that i think is
interesting about this
is that it's a specification that
affects decision making and technology
adoption for 2 5 10 15 years down the
road
if people adopt web packaging and that's
i think that's one of the reasons why
for projects like this i think
like i would be very reticent to to
adopted wholesale because then you have
that dependency for the next
10 5 10 15 years also from a hardware
standpoint
getting hardware into like the root
certificates is something that every
single phone manufacturer tweaks
when they put hardware into a specific
market so if i am huawei
uh and i want to get huawei phones sold
in iran the
i need iranian version of of the fcc
to approve each one of those root
certificates so there's
censorship risk there in dependence on
hardware out of the factory
um but then i i think it is like
i well this this might be stranding away
from the
the conversation but again there are a
few other projects that
have tried to package the web in a
certain way for example amp
the amp project or facebook
internet.org or whatever and
it is super important that we get into
this conversation
uh and and these are very valid options
like this
well the web package is one the web
archiving resource form
the work format uh
these are things that and it is on our
hands like for example
for but by by by them and uh
for us for example two in the from the
uh
community network from the user's
perspective we need to try out these
technologies
because it's at our way to participate
in this discussion if not
we're just leaving the the conversation
for the big players and it's
yeah i i think the input is so important
so like i was going to encourage one of
the reasons why i was thanking you for
bringing it up
is now i wanted to encourage projects
like like knapsack for hope
to provide the feedback about why a
given specification
might be not adoptable for them so
you're like a write-up from knapsack for
hope on
we could not looking at this web package
specification which is the basically the
standardized version of amp by google
we could not adopt it for our use case
and here is why is the type of feedback
that the standards bodies desperately
need and it affects how they make this
the decision so i think i think that's a
fantastic point i i agree completely
have to be part of the conversation if
you want to have the standards that
that define our world and the air we
breathe for the next decade or two
have them meet our needs and our users
needs uh
i remember that we tried to use web
package
about a year ago for our
offline versions of website we ran into
trouble
and i know that our engineers were in
contact with the package
development team but eventually they
decided that because of the nature of
the
the use case of touche and the fact that
we want to make it as
easy to use as possible and
the packages as small as possible they
ended up deciding that the best solution
for now
is to have a flattened html file
that can be transferred in in a matter
of a few seconds to our users
uh without being worried about about all
the protocols and about
all the the specifications of the user
system
so uh we are losing some some benefits
uh
because we prepare we are sending a
flattened html file
but on the other hand we are making it
easy for everybody in iran
even with no technical knowledge to use
these web pages to read the news
and to try to share it easily with
everybody else
yes the tooling is one weak point in
distance because it's a very
early stage of the protocol so there are
not many tools
around for the web package at least i
haven't found many
because it's also an exploration it is
different for for example
work the web archiving format where
it is not good for your use not the best
for your use case because
it is basically the tcp it's like a tcp
ramp
like it's like the exchange of packages
at the very level
low level uh written down in an
archive in um in a tar file
like a in a in a target set file so it
is
difficult to search it is difficult to
open it
to process it and it brings things that
you might not even need
so tailor-made html would be the best
for the bandwidth that you have but
still it is something that to keep
to keep in mind this is that you're
saying like we need to be
very banned with efficient then this is
not
as it is it doesn't serve our use case
okay then
what should be added to the
uh to the syst to the system to the
protocol or to the underlying tools
that would effectively solve that
problem so you could use it because
the other features might be very
valuable for the
for for for the project and also being
part of the conversation
is very valuable again we don't usually
have time for those things but
uh it is something to keep in mind
uh we're at time for the hour uh i
really wanted to thank
evan for coming today it's been a
fascinating presentation a great
conversation
uh thanks everybody for participating
and uh
giannis is gonna take over hosting for
next couple of months
uh so we'll have uh update the issue for
this meeting
uh if you have suggestions of things
projects you would like to see come and
present
please do do suggest and maybe file an
issue in the repo
thanks again everybody thank you thank
you very much everybody thanks
uh for providing us this opportunity
and also i shared the link to a google
drive folder
with all the demo and presentation and
the softwares and the sample file that
you can test it for yourself to ex
see how they're very cool all right
thank you everybody bye thank you bye